From the New York Times, I'm Michael
Bubaro. This is the daily.
>> What people of America see what people
of Eastern Washington is President Trump
delivering on his promises. And so from
Iowa to New York, Republican members of
Congress have struggled to answer tough
questions about their party's agenda in
open town hall meetings that have turned
angry. But what I view was the moral
hazard created by the Biden
administration by allowing the US Mexico
border to remain insecure
>> and gone viral.
>> So we people are not alive. Well, we all
are going to die.
>> So much so
>> that Republican leaders have told
lawmakers to stop holding the town halls
altogether.
But at least one Republican has ignored
that advice.
>> I will be visible. I will be accessible.
>> Today, Congressman Mike Flood of
Nebraska on the disappearance of an
American political tradition and why for
him it's still worth preserving.
>> It is an honor to serve you and a
privilege to serve you and the United
States Congress. Thank you very much.
>> It's Monday, August 18th.
Good morning, Congressman.
>> How are you?
>> I'm well. How about you?
>> Good. Sorry, I was running a few minutes
late. There's so much road construction
between where I live and my district
office. It took me a little longer
today.
>> That seems like something you should be
able to solve.
>> I need to go to the state government to
solve some of those problems.
>> Right.
>> Cone placement. Cone placement.
>> There's only so much a member of
Congress can do.
Isn't that true?
>> Congressman, thank you for uh for making
time for us. I appreciate it.
>> Yeah.
>> Let let me just start by explaining my
own interest in the subject we're going
to be talking about, which is town
halls. I spent most of my career here at
the Times as a political correspondent
and I think I've probably attended
hundreds of town halls and I've always
seen them as a pretty special part of
our political system. A unique chance
for elected officials to come face to
face with voters, actually answer
questions. In my experience, it really
levels the playing field and there's
this built-in accountability system
because everyone in the room is watching
the elected official answer those
questions and it's evaluating them for
authenticity and for cander. And I've
watched elected officials master the
form of the town hall. I think a lot
about Chris Christie who would bring
this tough love approach to a town hall
and he charmed people across New Jersey
and he became a national political star
in the process.
But now your party is questioning
whether this tradition still makes sense
in today's political environment and has
basically concluded that they don't. And
yet you have kept doing them against the
advice of leaders in your party. So I
really want to understand why town halls
are so important to you. And I think
that means going back to the beginning
and understanding if that's in any way
personal for you. But what is your first
memory of attending a town hall if you
have one?
>> Well, let me give you a little
background if I may just on how I'm
built and then I will give you an
example about the town hall I remember
the most.
>> Sure.
>> So, I grew up in a home with two very
active Democrats. My mom was on the
state central committee. My dad was
elected county attorney in a very
Republican area of Nebraska. I remember
he was driving me to the polls in 1980
with him. I wasn't going to vote, but I
asked him, "What's the difference
between Republicans and Democrats
>> and he said,"Well, Democrats are poor
and Republicans are rich." And right
there, I was like, "Well, I'm going to
be a Republican."
>> How How old are you at the time? If you
recall,
>> I would have been five. And then in
1986, when I was 11, we had a very
unique gubanatorial contest in Nebraska.
We had two women running against each
other for the first time in American
history.
And uh my dad had Helen Bousales's sign
in the yard and I had Cayor's sign in
the yard. Kay is the Republican, Helen
was the Democrat. And I told my dad, I
want to go to Cayor's fundraiser at
Omaha 2 hours away cuz I had gotten an
invitation.
And he laughed about it.
>> You you had finagled as a child an
invitation to this.
>> Well, I got on some list. I'm sure it
was they didn't know I was 11, but I got
on some list because I had done some
call center work and
My dad drove me down there, but he
wouldn't park in front of the house
because he didn't want to be seen. So,
he dropped me off three blocks away. And
I walked in by myself, and I just loved
it. I loved everything about it. And so,
growing up, I was interested in the
interaction between
elected officials and their
constituents.
But when I think about town halls and I
think about the first real experience I
saw, this would have been in 2003. A
state senator from Lincoln, Ron Rakes,
was proposing to eliminate all of the
one room schoolh houses across Nebraska,
the rural schools.
>> And I went to Wahoo, Nebraska, and the
place was packed with angry rural
Nebraskans.
>> Right. Who did not want to see their
schools close.
>> Did not want to see their small schools
closed. Yeah. So Ron Rake sat up there
at the head of a table with the other
members of the Nebraska Legislature
Education Committee and he let everybody
speak
[Music]
and I saw tears. I saw screaming. I saw
people that were just despondent. I mean
this was a way of life for them. Their
children were getting this great
education and he was changing it. And I
was definitely against what he was
doing. But he sat there and respectfully
listened to everybody and everybody got
their say,
you know, and this went on for like 3
and 1/2 hours.
And when I saw that, I said, "This is
everything I wanted it to be. This is
the job I want to be in."
>> As painful as it probably was.
>> Yes. It was very powerful for me to
witness the people, you know, exercising
their right to protest and the power
that it had.
[Music]
Well, given the importance that you so
clearly place on on town halls, what did
you think when the National Republican
Congressional Committee
advised Republicans, advised basically
lawmakers like you earlier this year to
basically stop having them because in in
their minds it was starting to create
just too many negative headlines and it
was becoming too rich a target for
Democratic activists.
many of whom end up in the audience.
When Republicans have these town halls,
that felt like a really unusual thing. I
think we can all remember when town
halls have gotten out of hand in modern
political history. I'm thinking about
the Tea Party era when folks are furious
at President Obama over his healthcare
plans, but I can't recall a moment when
one of the two parties said, "That's it
for town halls. No more of these." So,
what was your first thought at that
directive? What was your reaction?
>> I was like, "Oh my gosh, I have one
scheduled for next week." That's what
that was my first thought. Um,
>> too late to cancel.
>> Yeah. Too late to cancel.
>> Did I mean, did you for a minute
consider cancelling?
>> Well, for a brief second I was like, I
don't want to run a foul of the house
leadership, you know, like I'm a team
player. I pride myself on wanting to do
the right thing and to build the respect
of my colleagues and so of course I'm
going to think about it. But the guy
that I replaced in Congress was Chef
Foronberry and he had town halls every
year for 17 years. So when I was running
and somebody asked me I said yes I will
do three town halls a year.
>> So that's the commitment you made as a
candidate.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And it's something that
Nebraskans expect in a lot of ways.
And so by the time I got back to my
office, my message to my chief of staff
was, you better let leadership know that
we're having these town halls and the
first one is next week and we're not
canceling it.
I want to start by saying that I believe
the town halls are an important part of
the process. It's democracy. It's how we
communicate with each other.
Tonight is an opportunity for me to
listen to you, to learn from you, to
answer your questions, but I want you to
know I'm guided by this. This really
matters to me, and I think it matters to
all of us. Kim, why don't you start with
our first question today?
Let's talk about your town halls this
year and what they felt like, what
they've sounded like since you decided
to keep holding them. When you opened up
your first town hall this year, it was
late March. Trump is suddenly back in
office. He's got a slew of executive
orders against law firms.
He's starting to go after universities.
He's claiming the right to end
birthright citizenship, even though it's
guaranteed in the 14th Amendment. Doge
has started. It's firing thousands of
federal workers. There's a lot going on.
So, with that in mind, do you have any
idea just how rous these town halls are
going to get
>> going into that first one?
>> Mhm.
>> No.
[Music]
>> Here's the deal. That $36 36 trillion
number is not going away. It is not
going away unless we deal with Medicare
and Medicaid. Let's remain calm.
>> It was in Columbus,
>> town my wife was born in, raised in a
town 45 minutes south of me.
>> And this is something we have to do as a
country.
>> I couldn't have predicted
>> this
>> that it would have gone like that.
>> A balanced budget where we
How can you be against a balanced
budget?
>> All right.
>> Elon Musk gets $40 billion a year in
funding from the federal government. Do
you think he would cut that before he
would cut our Medicare or our Social
Security or our jobs?
I support Elon Musk and the Department
of Government Efficiency.
[Applause]
[Music]
>> And I think when it was over, I was
stunned.
>> What message are you sending
>> and a little numb?
>> That's my honest That's honestly how I
felt.
>> I don't think your high school civics
teacher would endorse that behavior.
[Music]
And on the drive back to Norfor, which
is 45 minutes, I was just replaying in
my head everything that I saw and I
heard.
>> What are you doing to be real with
people about how Trump is breaking the
law?
>> And to get away,
>> I got home. And
>> when are you and Congress going to take
back your responsibility?
>> I just had to kind of just process
everything.
>> You have done nothing.
>> Who's lying? Them or you? Why are you
doing this to your constituents?
>> When are you going to do something?
>> This is where we're at.
>> You have an oath.
>> We need actual action. When are you
going to stand up for us?
>> It's interesting because it felt like
the subtext of a lot of the questions
you were getting in these town halls,
especially early on, is where is
Congress right now? Where in particular
are congressional Republicans as a check
on a president who is exercising a
greater level of power than any
president in modern history? And and
there's one inquiry that stood out to
me.
>> Yeah. Um my question is regarding your
oath of office. Um so you have up until
now abdicated all of your rights as
Congress to the executive branch. And if
you don't act as a check and a balance,
>> the question ended with this voter
saying,
>> "What exactly is the purpose of
Congress?"
>> Why do you even exist?
>> I have not abdicated any responsibility
I have under the Constitution of the
>> Well, I think some of that is overblown.
And let me tell you why. There's this
idea that if you are providing oversight
or your the checks and balances that it
has to be done on CNN at 9:00 Eastern or
Fox News at 9:00 Eastern.
If I'm going to draw a red line, I'm not
going to draw it on TV.
I'm going to draw it with the people
that are actually in charge of their
part of the government.
>> You're saying it's unseen.
>> Well, it's seen by the people that are
dealing with the issue. It's just not
done for public purposes.
>> When I see things that I do not think
are right, I work on them. I speak out
against them and I stand up. I also, and
I'm going to say this loud and clear, I
voted for Donald Trump and I support
Donald Trump as president. He's done
more to address the root issues of this
country in the last four months than we
saw from our prior president. And I
believe that. And I want to say that out
loud so that I'm on record doing that.
All right.
>> Well, you did say that. in your answer
to this constituent that you do speak
out when you don't like something. But
>> let's get specific. Have you spoken out
against anything Trump has done in his
second term? Specifically,
>> National Weather Service cuts.
National Weather Service is a vital
federal agency for
Nebraska because we are in tornado
alley. You know, I'm I'm visiting these
offices and they're down 40%.
>> Right. And this was a hill to die on for
me. Like this was public safety. And so,
you know, I was successfully able to get
this going and since they've hired back
people. So, that would be one example.
>> Mhm. Why did Why did you not say that at
the town hall when you're speaking to to
voters? Did did it occur to you to say
that? Look, I pushed back. I' I I got
these jobs restored at the National
Weather Service.
>> Yeah, I did at one of them, but you
know, like
who wants to work with a grandstander?
You know what I mean? like the goal is
to fix the problem and I'm
happy as hell that it got fixed.
>> Well, grandstanding is an interesting
word for what speaking out against
something you don't like is. And I think
you may know where I'm headed here. In
the second Trump presidency, it feels
like lawmakers, especially within the
Republican party, are fearful of
publicly getting crosswise with the
president. And when you were asked about
abdicating your role, when you were
asked about specific policies, you in
these town halls tend to specifically go
out of your way to emphasize how much
regard you have for the president. And
you say, "I want to make that loud and
clear. I voted for him." I mean, am I
right to intuit it a certain level of I
don't want to step in it in this town
hall and I don't want to become the
subject of the president's eye or does
that constrain you in this environment?
It sounds like it does. I am supportive
of the president. I mean, but when I got
to Congress in 2022,
65% of my time was dealing with agency
rules and regulations that were
punishing all sorts of folks in
Nebraska, whether it be farmers,
ranchers, banks, you name it. And the
relief that came on January 20th is what
I voted for. Like, that's what I wanted.
I wanted innovation. I want all of these
new ideas. Do President Trump and I have
the same demeanor? Probably not. I think
it's fair to say that we don't. But I
thought it was very important that I
say, listen, I support President Trump
and I support Elon Musk in doing what
they're doing because the federal debt
is a big issue for me and the spending
is a big issue for me. And although the
way it was approached at all times
wouldn't be my preference, I think that
the overall arc of what we're doing in
in terms of spending is important.
What I heard were some people in that
room saying, "Where are you pushing back
at all?" And I think essentially what
they're asking, and I'd ask it on their
behalf, is is there anything besides the
National Weather Service, for example,
that the president has done that has
concerned you?
>> Well, tariffs concern me because it
introduces uncertainty
>> into our economy. But you look at the
first time he ran, he made it work. So,
we're counting on that.
>> I mean,
>> so there there's something
>> just just to put it really plainly, do
you feel like you can be truly candid in
any disapproval that you have of
President Trump's actions, especially in
a public room where cameras may be
rolling, people are searching for viral
moments,
>> I understand that if you pop over the
edge and say, "Nope, I don't agree with
that." Right? For me to do that, I have
to be convicted in what I'm doing. I
want to know where my conference is at.
You don't come over the hill with no
one. And sometimes he just says things,
right? Like seizing the Panama Canal,
>> turning Alcatraz into a prison again,
you know, like don't take the bait like
look at what you're trying to
accomplish. Like I'm trying to get
housing reform going. I go to work every
single day and I work on that bill and
I'm talking to people about that bill
and it's bipartisan. And so
I know that it would make some people on
the left
love every minute of seeing their member
up over the hedge every single day.
But you don't get to have a new red line
every day just because a subset of your
constituents are livid about X. He is
the leader of the party that I'm in. And
there's a balance.
[Music]
I will continue to do town halls. I will
continue to show up in person. And I
want to thank all of you for coming.
Good night.
>> Okay. When you exit, please go out the
exit right here on
your left. So, don't go back out the way
you came in. Please go out.
[Music]
We'll be right back.
Here's what I ask of you tonight. I know
some of you are angry.
I know some of you are upset. Let's make
this a model for the nation and how we
can have a discussion about the future
of America. and we can talk as much
about ideas and solutions as we do
identifying the problems because
ultimately it's my job to do the best
job I can representing all of you. With
that, I want to cut my remarks short. I
want to get right into questions and
answers.
>> Let me get back to this idea of
Congress's responsibility, your
responsibility.
>> Hello, Congressman Flood. I share your
concern for our national debt, but the
ends do not justify the means. Can you
please
>> you had an exchange with someone at a
town hall who asked you about a
provision of the president's giant
domestic policy bill,
>> one big beautiful bill as he refers to
it that would have seriously cretailed
the power of the federal courts.
>> Can you please tell us why you voted to
approve a budget bill that includes
section 70302
which effectively prohibits federal
courts from enforcing contempt orders?
my question. I only got 30 seconds.
>> And contempt orders allow federal judges
to hold the executive branch accountable
when they defy the courts. It's really
their only tool,
>> which would then allow current and
future administrations to ignore those
contempt orders by removing the
enforcement capabilities.
>> I do not agree with that section that
was added to that bill.
This provision was unknown to me when I
voted for the bill.
>> Okay, next question. Next question.
>> I am not going to hide the truth. This
provision was unknown to me when I voted
for that bill.
>> And when I
>> And what you told this voter,
Congressman, is that you didn't know
that provision was in the bill
presumably because you didn't read the
entire bill before you voted for it. So,
how did it feel having to kind of admit
that, which you did, that you voted for
something you didn't quite understand?
>> Two things here. Um, I did read the
bill. I voted for that one big beautiful
bill. I voted until like 7:00 in the
morning. I got on a plane. I went back
home to Nebraska. Now, it's 9:30 at
night. Someone in the legal community in
Nebraska calls me and like, "Did you
know this is in the bill?" I was like,
"What are you talking about?"
Well, this section. So, I pull it up. I
went to law school. I practiced as a
general practitioner for 20 years. You
can read those seven lines 15 times. And
if you aren't a practitioner in a
federal district court on issues like
constitutional issues, like I've never
been to federal district court. and the
way that provision was written, I had to
go to an article written by a Notre Dame
law professor to really understand its
import.
And after I did those things,
I felt terrible. I didn't want that in
there. I didn't have any interest in
defanging the federal district courts.
And that was a red line for me. And
honestly, I appreciated the question.
The only way through that was to be
honest and to tell him how much that
meant. I wasn't going to hide it. I
couldn't defend it. There was no way
around it.
>> Hey, why are you guys booing me? I'm
just telling you I didn't do the bare
minimum of my job.
>> Right. That moment when basically viral
and not necessarily in a good way.
>> It is never a good sign when your
defense to that in front of your own
constituents was I didn't read that
version.
Listen, I don't know what would be
worse, honestly, if he was really this
negligent or if he voted for it because
he thinks Trump should be a king like
Hinson does. Apparently,
>> it's not like a 23 andme terms of
service agreement where you can just
blindly sign it and now there's a clone
of you who's a sex slave for anc
oligarch. Unlike that, these bills are
important.
[Music]
>> You know, my oldest son, Brandon, said,
"Dad, you didn't read the bill." I said,
"I missed it, Brennan." Wow.
>> I missed it.
>> He must have seen this moment as well
somewhere on the internet.
>> Oh, yeah. And you know, he got ridiculed
for that, I'm sure.
>> H
>> So to say it bothered me, it really
bothered me. The next day after I
figured that out, I called my staff. We
got a hold of the Senate Judiciary
Committee. We flagged it for them. And
the reason we have three rounds in our
unicamel is that things get in bills
that you end up figuring out what their
real import is. You take them out. This
is part of the process of lawmaking.
>> What I voted for was not a law. I voted
for a bill that went to the Senate and
that was stripped out and I was able to
vote for it.
>> So it worked. The process worked.
>> But I guess I'm I'm just Does a moment
like this help explain to you why some
of the people in these town halls were
so upset? Could you understand where
they were coming from?
>> Yes. We've got people that come to these
town halls that are upset to start with.
I mean, they are receiving all of their
news and information often times from a
television network that has a slant,
just like Republicans are receiving
their news and information from a
network that has a slant. And there's
not a lot of nonpartisan information
that comes. So, they come angry to start
with. Well, and then they hear their
congressman, as earnest as you are,
saying, "I didn't know that I was voting
for a bill that was going to neuter the
courts at a moment where the president
is already defying them."
>> Yeah, I get it. I get it. The only way
through that, though, is to tell them
the truth. And you know what? I slept
better that night than I had in a long
time because I didn't blink. H.
>> And
as mad as people are and as much as
people
can get upset about that,
isn't that kind of what they also want?
They want you to stand up. They want you
to be there.
>> Mhm.
>> One thing I'd add here. Yeah. That
exchange right there
is the reason why politicians on both
sides of the aisle don't want to do town
halls
because
these things are real.
>> They're raw and they are as accountable
as anything else in America.
>> Well, good evening Lincoln. Thank you
very much for being here tonight. I know
that many of you uh stood in line for a
long time. I know that many of you have
made this a a point to be here. And
here's the deal.
>> So, and said,
>> Congressman, in your final town hall
this year, which you held after this
bill, the one big beautiful bill, as it
was known, officially passes.
>> I want to go right into this bill
because I know this is something a lot
of people have questions about.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Let's start here. Let's start
here. That's when voter anger seems to
reach a fever pitch.
>> Yes. First of all, I'd ask you please
not to refer to that monstrosity as the
big beautiful bill.
>> It's the name of the bill, though.
>> So, how can you justify taking healthc
care away from 78,000 Nebraskans?
>> As I explained before, this bill
protects Medicaid for the future. People
are asking you about cuts to Medicaid.
>> Why did you cut SNAP and healthcare
research?
>> We do not have unlimited money in the
United States.
>> To food stamps, SNAP.
>> And I see this new bill that transfers
trillions of dollars of wealth from
workingclass Americans, people that are
sitting in this room to billionaires
that don't even live in this state. And
so my question is, I know who I work
for, but who do you work for? So my
question is, did you read the bill?
>> I read the bill.
>> I read the bills.
>> And you worked really hard to make the
case that this legislation is good for
your district.
>> If we didn't pass the big, beautiful
bill, it would have been a $1600 tax
increase to every Nebraska family.
That is a true middle class tax cut.
>> Next slide, please.
You look like a college professor on
that stage talking about what's in this
bill.
>> People in here
are upset with me that I voted to cut $2
trillion in spending from the budget.
But still,
>> the Republican party now more than ever
represents the heart and soul of the
working class.
>> You're booed.
>> How much does it cost for fascism? How
much do the taxpayers have to pay for a
fascist country?
>> You're jeered. Fascists don't hold town
halls with open question and answer
series.
[Music]
So I'm curious
as someone who sees so much value in
this format. What was the value in that?
Was there any?
>> Yeah, there's value because I think it's
cathartic for the people that
are so upset and
I get something out of it. You know,
people don't realize when you're
standing on stage and everybody's
looking at you.
>> I see people that maybe are upset about
the one big beautiful bill, but they are
with me on Ukraine.
And I see that in the non-verbal. I see
people that are worried about the future
of democracy and they are smiling when I
say fascists don't hold town halls.
There's a communication back and forth
that only the elected official gets to
see when you're talking to a crowd of
people that are upset.
Had I not done an uh town hall in
Lincoln,
it would have been a
slap in the face to my biggest city in
my district. And before each town hall,
I go out and shake the people's hands
coming in. You know, Chris Christie says
it's hard to hate up close, right? So, I
go up and I shake everybody's hands and,
you know, I get a lot of feedback. But
one of the things I heard a couple times
when I was shaking people's hands was,
"Thanks for realizing that we're in
Nebraska, too." And at first, I was
like, "What are they talking about?" And
it's easy to go to these rural
communities where there's more, you
know, Republicans.
And
as somebody who grew up in a small town,
I felt that way before, like, am I
really part of Nebraska? Isn't Isn't all
this just about Oman Lincoln? And so to
have people from Lincoln say, "Thanks
for coming here and doing it here,
>> right?
>> We're in Nebraska, too.
>> This is your most democratic corner of
your district."
>> Yeah. I thought that's a compliment. You
know, like I'm here and we're doing
this.
>> Can I say they were thanking you, but
the hate
>> to quote Chrisy was up close. It was not
hard to hate up close in that in that
room, it seems.
>> No, that's true. But that was maybe a
hundred people of the 700 that were that
that upset. And at no time did I ever
lose my cool or my my mode of operation.
We just kind of went through it. And I
did say going in, I said, "Hey, let
people say their peace. We're I do not
want people drug out of here. That is
not what this is about. If that's the
way they want to do it, that's the way
they want to do it.
But if I'm not willing to go stand in
the middle of my biggest city,
how does anything ever get better?"
Okay, next question.
>> Can you hear me?
>> Yes.
>> I'm a I'm a lifetime member of the
Veterans of Foreign Wars. You know,
>> I had somebody come up to me in Seward
and say
>> postal service, which
>> you know, he's a 57y old postal worker.
>> Uh you voted for a budget bill that cuts
the Social Security supplement, which is
a large portion of our benefits, and
these are benefits that we've earned. We
work for these benefits. Okay? We had
made one change that he was fine with in
his retirement system, but there was
something else in the bill that wasn't
good. Uh what I need to understand in
your situation is the exact program that
you're on and the exact impact that the
uh the bill in its current form is
having. We're eligible to retire when
we're 57. So we're not eligible for
social security till we're 62. So, what
what the bill that you voted for does
erases the 57 to 62 supplement that gets
us to it, which is a large portion at
that age of our retirement. Uh, I'm
happy to sit down with you. I'm happy to
look at it. I will get the information
and then I will do my best to act on
your behalf. That is my pledge to you.
We went back, we called him, we made
sure we understood it and we were able
to tell him, hey, that has been
resolved. People don't see the case work
that comes out of these things, but you
know, I would have never known about
that issue with a postal worker that's
57 years old. There's no way I would
ever have dreamt that, but he came to a
town hall and he put it on everybody's
radar.
>> But I guess I'm still wondering what it
means for constituents, for voters, when
these town halls go away. If most of
your party is avoiding this format, does
something important get lost?
Well, first I will say the reason you
see less of these is that you have
constituents that attend on both sides
of the aisle that say they're frustrated
at their inability to have to glean
information from a respectful back and
forth dialogue because they're actually
there to try and get answers to the
questions that they have. So, a lot of
the people that are doing the booing are
the ones that are creating the challenge
for others.
But, you know, like everybody does their
job differently in Congress. And this
fits my way that I do it.
>> Others are way more productive in
different ways, communicating with their
constituents.
And
some of my colleagues have legitimate
safety issues that I don't feel like I
have. That is legit.
>> Right. I mean I mean, back to that
moment when you hesitated about whether
to cancel your own town hall.
What do you think would have been lost
if you had cancelled all three of them
this year? Right. I mean, how would that
57y old postal worker have gotten his
concern across?
>> Uh
there obviously there's value, you know,
like I I think a lot of people see it
and they don't think it has any value
and nobody's talking about the value
that's there.
>> You know, it's good for America that we
have Republicans and Democrats that can
spend an hour and a half in a room
together. And yeah, there's some
shouting and yelling, but I got the
chance to say what I wanted to say. I
got the chance to explain my votes. I
got the chance to essentially debate
with a few of my constituents and they
got the chance in their eyes to hold me
accountable and to tell me how they
felt. We all got something out of it.
So, right or wrong, maybe there's a
better way to do this. I've been going
to these things for a long time and I I
hope that as Americans they continue for
a long long time.
>> It sounds like you're going to keep
holding town halls next year as as you
have this year. And I'm thinking back to
the town halls you talked about when you
were a young lawmaker and and and
clearly there was emotion in them, but I
don't think it looked like this. I mean,
yes, when people were having their
school shut down, they were emotional
and they were upset. Were they calling
the lawmakers fascists? I don't I'm I'm
seeing you nod no. And what I'm really
asking is you said in one of your town
halls you urged voters to make the town
hall that you were about to embark on a
model of discussion for the rest of the
nation. So what do you think it says
that your town halls
went the way that they did about the
nature of our democracy, the nature of
our ability to have conversations right
now? What does it say to you? Uh, it's
certainly strained,
but it's also not representative of
where I think most of the people are. I
mean, the media grabs on to that person
that's screaming fascist and it delights
one half of America and it repulses the
other half of America.
But I have more in common with those
screaming protesters than I do the rest
of America that thinks that politics is
a hobby. Doesn't affect them and they
don't pay any attention to it.
>> H
like this is America. This is every
decision I make affects somebody.
>> So you have kind of come to a grudging
admiration for the passion that leads
someone to come to a town hall like that
and scream you're a fascist. Of course,
because they care, right?
>> Yeah.
>> There are people that can live in
America
and take care of their family and not
give one ounce of thought
to anything that's happening in the
world other than the bubble that they
live in.
And
the lady that's calling me a fascist is
not living in that bubble. She is very
invested in her beliefs and where she
thinks the country is going.
She showed up and she's spicy.
Like that's the town square. That's
politics. That's what we do. That's like
if I think that my votes are the right
votes, I should have no problem standing
in the town square and defending them.
And I did that.
[Music]
Well, Congressman, thank you very much.
We appreciate it.
>> My pleasure.
[Music]
We'll be right back.
Here's what else you need another day.
By Sunday, there was growing consensus
that President Trump had broken from the
principles of his European allies and
sided with Russia during his summit on
Friday with Vladimir Putin. During the
summit, Trump adopted Putin's view that
to end the war between Russia and
Ukraine, Ukraine must give up territory
in a direct peace deal, including land
unoccupied by Russia, rather than first
trying for a ceasefire
that has alarmed European officials who
believe that the plan prioritizes
Russia's goals over Ukraine's. On
Sunday, leaders from Germany, France,
Britain, Italy, and Finland said that
they would travel to Washington today to
join Ukrainian leader Wimir Zalinski for
a meeting with Trump. Their goal, they
said, is to present a unified front
against Russia and to try to persuade
Trump to back away from Putin's views.
[Music]
Today's episode was produced by Osa
Chauvdy and Rob Zipco with help from
Michael Simon Johnson and Alex Stern. It
was edited by Lindseay Garrison and
Maria Burn, fact checked by Will Pel,
and was engineered by Chris Wood.
[Music]
That's it for the Daily. I'm Michael
Baro. See you tomorrow.